# COVID-ANALYSIS-_RESEARCH-
The novel coronavirus (COVID-19) was widely reported to have first been detected in Wuhan (Hebei province, China) in December 2019. After the initial outbreak, COVID-19 continued to spread to all provinces in China and very quickly spread to other countries within and outside of Asia. At present, over 45 million cases of infected individuals have been confirmed in over 180 countries with in excess of 1 million deaths [1]. Although the foundations of this disease are very similar to the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) virus that took hold of Asia in 2003, it is shown to spread much more easily and there currently exists no vaccine.

In Europe, Italy and Spain were two of the first European countries to be significantly affected by COVID-19. However, the majority of the literature covering the two countries focuses on the clinical aspects of the disease, [36–40], with only a limited number exploring the prevalence of the disease
 and the doubling time becomes the halving time (both reflecting the decay and decrease in daily incidence). The fitted log-linear regressions for Italy and Spain are shown in the left hand plots of Figs 21 and 22, respectively. The fitted models appear to provide reasonable fits to the observed decay phase daily incidence much like the case for the growth phase.

In this paper, we have provided a simple statistical analysis of the novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak in Italy and Spain—two of the worst affected countries in Europe. Using data of the daily and cumulative incidence in both countries over approximately the first month after the first cases were confirmed in each respective country, we have analysed the trends and modelled the incidence and estimated the basic reproduction value using two common approaches in epidemiology—the SIR model and a log-linear model
